My name is Dariush 
This is a short presenttaion of the work I have done around visualising the COVID-19 data.
 
the data wrangling part  takes 3 input files related to the confirmed cases, death and recovered cases.
It transforms them and craetes a single CSV.


Then comes the actual visualisation process using R which uses the input file and generates html output which I publish to a 
shiny server with general public as audience in mind.  and takes around 10 seconds to load.


It can be accessed from this link
I have selected a newspaper layout article to tell a story. I can augment the graphs and tables with description rather
 than just a title which I then have to manage its positioning and gap. 
 
It starts with some background. It then and provides a global view of the 
outbreak on a world map with a color palet to help quantify the number of confirmed cases across the world.
we can see the outbreak is everywhere except in greenland and some south american countries.
However the extent is much greater as we move from Chine to middle east and then to Eurpe and US. 


 cases than any other country, 
whilst Spain and Ita
teh next table table provides quantitative measures of each category for the top 15 infected nations, 
we can see that China has had a better success in the number or recoveredly has had more cases of deaths reported. 
Interestingly, countries such as UK and Netherland have significant number of confirmed cases 
but very low recovered case
Iran is also interesting that perhaps lacks an advanced health care has very high rate of recovered cases.


The bar chart says teh same thing I went through but is much more visual and makes it easier to compare.
US, China, and Iran and UK



The next diagram shows how did we get to where we are. It shows the cumulaive number of confirmed cases across th world. 
It shows that it was around Mid March  when it became obvious that the numbers were moving up exponentially. 
This is when WHO declared the epidemy as pandemic.



We now focus on Australia’s situation.  This graph shows the cumulative number of confirmed 
cases since the beginning of the outbreak. 
It shows that the curve started to climb exponentially around mid-March and flattened around early April.




Using
next graph, we can zoom into each country and get an overview of the three categories for a selected country. 
NSW ranking highest followed by ...
Simiaar to death and recovery
Although the number of recovered in NSW does not seem to be reported or captured.
Look at Chine and emirates





The next graph is much more flexible in showing different slices of the data. 
It shows teh trend for each state if the data supports it
E.g ACT peeked late march and dropped back in early April
Similar situatio for victoria

Also show cumulative.

US and UK show similar patter in terms of the start and the rate of preogression for confirmed cases
Show US and Germany.
pointing to travel between US and eurpoew

Thank you for listening
